---
layout: post
title: "Reading List 2019"
date: 2019-11-29
excerpt: "A collection of the books that I have read June through December 2019"

comments: false 
---

Sometime in the summer between working my internship at Google and training 
for the cross country season I needed some way to occupy myself for the two 
hours of weekday freetime I had after work before going to sleep. I 
actually had not read for leisure since the middle of high school, though 
it's not as if I have been illiterate this whole time by reading nothing. 
Just not for fun.

It's not preferable but I actually have read most of these books through
the books app on my iPhone. Reading an actual physical book is way more
pleasant for my eyes, but it turns out that it's mentally a lot easier
to overcome the initial cost of starting to read by replacing less
essential apps like Facebook with the Books app. 

Maybe I will write some words about each book after I finish reading them,
but I would not count on it. 

### With the Old Breed - Eugene Sledge (November 23rd - November 27th)

Figured that a lot of the books that I have been reading have been from authors
analyzing the feelings and motivations of people of great influence during
times of war. Presidents for example, or the multitude of generals that
are depicted in "The Guns of August." So, as a change of pace, I read 
"With the Old Breed" by Eugene Sledge. The content of this book should be
familiar to those that have watched the HBO miniseries, The Pacific, because
that is what the episodes about Peleliu and Okinawa were based on. Sledge 
is a mortarman in the 1st Marine Division and "With the Old Breed" is his
recounting of his experiences many years following the war. From his own
memory, as well as notes that he kept written between the lines of his 
New Testament Bible, Sledge gives a very close up view of the grueling fights
that took place in the Pacific front. As my version's introduction says, not many
soldiers of his rank decided to keep detailed record of their experiences, so
his tale is very much worth taking in. 

### The Guns of August - Barbara W. Tuchman (October 18th - November 6th, 2019)

As the preface of this book says, Tuchman makes the reader forget about 
what they know about history and just listen to the suspensful events 
leading up to and during the first month of World War I. After reading 
this book, I definitely have placed more importance in my mind on the
conflict that started off the 20th century. Being I think somewhat
adaquate in my historical knowledge, I was aware of the effects that
this conflict would put in place. An entire generation killed,
the division of the Ottoman Empire, the foundations for the second
world war and so on. However, I had never gone day by day through just
the first month of conflict like Tuchman has taken me through. having
done all of the hard work reading the diaries of generals, their telegrams,
official accounts, Barbara Tuchman creates an almost all-seeing tale
for the reader. Every decision on all sides that gets made is accounted 
for at length. The real intensity of the book I think comes from
waiting for what comes after each military order. As we know today, the
war came to a stalemate and lasted for 4 years, resulting in 
~19 million deaths. This stalemate, Tuchman I believe argues, is 
primarily a result of the first month of action. Where decisive victory
could have been won by either side in those days before the war settled
into trench warefare. It was well within the German's grasp
before the Marne, and, had both sides not made the mistakes Tuchman
meticulously lays out, the length of the war would have been greatly 
reduced, if it needed to happen at all.

### The Last Question - Isaac Asimovi (October 19th)

About less than a ten minute read but worthwhile to put on this list. Spoiler
but the "Last Question" is "how might entropy be reversed." A question that
I could ask now but with no real meaning as the energy of this universe will
last well beyond the death of myself, and our solar system. Though, most 
importantly in this essay, this does not mean forever. 

### The March of Folly - Barbara W. Tuchman (August 27th - October 16th, 2019)

It's tough to find time to read during the school year, as I try to balance
school and cross country. It's very possible that I read this book, with
a few exceptions, only in times I lay in bed after I wake up and before
I go to sleep. I also heard of this book from the History of Rome 
podcast. *The March of Folly* is an examination of multiple examples
in history in which governments pursue policies that are contrary to their
own interests. There are several requirements for these examples, such
that the policies have to be recognized as a mistake at the time, and
that there must exist alternatives. After surveying the many mistakes done 
by governments that had every reason to make the correct choice, this
book did not leave me with much confidence for what is in store for 
humanity in the future. Despite thousands of years of human
governence, it would seem that we still are not really skilled at 
generating good policy. Surprising, as our capability to advance our
scientific methods has been exponentially on the rise. This book was
written in the early 80s, so possibly this sort of attitude was common
for the time, as citizens' trust in government was depicted as low.

### The Roman Way - Edith Hamilton (August, 2019)

This book came to my attention through listening to the History of
Rome podcast. It was part of the speaker's ad for Audible audio books
but I bought it through Apple books but, even so, it was a worthwhile 
read that gave some perspective on the Roman way of life that I did
not yet understand. For the most part, it is pretty clear the influence
that the Roman Republic/Empire has on our society. Our architecture, 
language, and symbols have a lot passed down from them. However, 
*The Roman Way*, which investigates Roman literature, revealed to me that we
owe much more than I previously had thought. Even today's sitcoms, which
I thought were too dumb to be anything but a product of modern life, have
similar tropes and characters to ancient Roman plays. For the most part
though, Hamilton contrasts Roman culture with Greek culture. Though
the Romans seemed to borrow just about everything, alphabet, gods, from 
the Greeks, there was significant adaptation put in that makes Roman
culture familiar to us, and Greek culture foreign. Themes such as dying
for the glory of one's country, are very common in Roman stories, and
totally absent in equivalent Greek tales. *The Roman Way* is not very
long, but it touches on about every major Roman author. Making the book
move very quickly, which could get confusing. If anything, listing
the wide variety of literature that was produced in the ancient times
has increased the number of books that I would like to read. 

### Andrew Carnegie Autobiography (July 12th - July 30th, 2019)

Having lived in Pittsburgh since 2008 and going to Carnegie Mellon
University, it makes sense to read the autobiography of the man that
made Pittsburgh the place it is. The autobiography is not too long, 
and starts out with Andrew Carnegie's childhood in Scotland, his 
immigration to the United States, and his journey to becoming one of 
the richest Americans in history. Overall I think Carnegie's telling 
of his life was interesting, especially his childhood. It seemed
to me that his climb to wealth was pretty rapid and his extreme work ethic 
brought upon his riches. Though this is coming from reading his 
autobiography, and he definitely was a big self-promoter. Towards the end, 
especially after Carnegie's retirement, I
unfortunately lost a lot of interest as all he talks about are random
conversations with famous people and how much money he gave to somebody or
some organization.  

### Upheaval - Jared Diamond (July 4th - July 12th, 2019)

### Presidents of War - Michael Beschloss (June 2019)

### Romance of the Three Kingdoms - Luo Guanzhong (June 2019)

I do not think I can effectively relate the length of this book. Before
reading this historical novel written in the 14th century about the
Chinese three kingdoms period in the 2nd to 3rd century, 
I did not know much at all about the events that seemingly endless
period of division. I also cannot hope to fully review and explain it
in enough detail to make me feel that I am respecting one of the "Four
Classical Novels" of Chinese literature. The war detailed spans generations
with many original main character's sons fighting on for what their
father's or grandfather's died years before for. What I felt was common
among civil wars is that the many characters of the book changed sides 
extremely frequently, depending on which leader they thought had better
character or was likely to win. This kind of turnover happens even in
the west for example with the many Roman civil wars, with the legions
sometimes abandoning their original master when the tides turn. Deception 
played a big part in winning campaigns, and ambushes had devestating effectiveness at times. This is a pretty big oversimplification, but what really 
draws this book out is that there are three factions and not two. Meaning 
the two weaker sides will most always ally up to defeat the stronger side,
before the three reorganize to defeat whoever emerges as the next 
strongest. There is a lot to be said about the nature of the famous figures,
like Liu Bei, Guan Yu, Cao Cao, but reading the actual novel, or an
abridged version would be more better than me trying to condense 
the story. 
