--- 
layout: post 
title: "Reading List 2020" 
date: 2020-01-08 
excerpt: "A collection of the books that I have read in the year 2020"

comments: false 
---

This year for 2020 I hope to continue reading and documenting which books that
I complete here on this website. Though I also found it convenient to use
[goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com/review/list/104759146) to keep track of
books as well. Giving complete reviews/reflections on these books is not really
my goal, but I might provide some aspect that I found interesting or possibly a
description of what was going on in my life at the time I read the book. Also
a disclaimer, these notes get written in about five minutes each, so expect
grammar mistakes, or not totally thought out points or statements.

### Accessory to War: The Unspoken Alliance Between Astrophysics and the Military (December)

I started this book in September, and, as you can see below, I finished a
handful of books in the meantime. Not that I did not enjoy this book, but it is
pretty detailed. To support that point, of the 576 pages in the print edition
that I read, the actual content of the book ends on page 404, leaving the rest
for acknowledgements, notes, index and citations. Though, there is nothing
dense about the language used, but the tiresome part is that multiple times
through the book flies through multiple periods of history, and what government
official said what, or what report declared this to that. This approach
certainly has its benefits, as each point or statement about history can be
quickly traced to some citation. By the end, I was happy enough to know more
about the importance of space technology, and the critical role that the
military plays in its development.  The most repeated idea presented is that of
dual use, in which technologies developed for purposes of war can just as
easily have peacetime benefit (GPS being a popular example). This also goes the
other way around when peaceful technologies can be adapted into a tool for war. 

### Ages of Discord (November)

Also by Peter Turchin, Ages of Discord relies at least 10x more on data than any other book that I've
read. For most of his books, Turchin has investigated the rise and fall of societies. Though this is
a topic explored by many, his approach creates a model by which to measure a society's stability or
success, and then uses vast quantities of data with additional statistical methods to support the model.
Following an introduction, the entire second part of Ages of Discord is dedicated to building such
a model, which then for the rest of the book he tests out on American civilization from the 1800s
to present day. Data is not as abundant in the 19th century, and a lot of times there are a lot of
different dynamics that can affect a nation's stability, but the model does surprisingly well. If
there is a point that Turchin makes in the book, it's that the overproduction of elites is the
most significant contributor to a society's instability. If you would like to know why, I would
recommend reading this book and learning, as Turchin calls it, Structural Demographic Theory.

### Ultrasociety: How 10,000 Years of War Made Humans the Greatest Cooperators on Earth (November)

This book I found through the author getting mentioned by the Economist. This eventually was
followed by my reading of Ages of Discord (Described above). Ultrasociety I would peg as more
similar to a previous book I read, Sapiens. Both books start from the beginning of humanity
to the present day, and present motivations for how our societies work as they do. In this case,
Turchin believes that our societies have been built by cooperation and competition. Specifically,
groups that have strong intra-cooperation can out-compete those that have weak intra-cooperation.
As a result over time, groups that were more cooperative would grow bigger, more numerous, and more
powerful than those to do so. Overall this theory can be called Cultural Evolution, as it applies
principles of biological evolution to the development of societies. The story is pretty believable
after some consideration, especially as opposed to supporters of the opposite, such as the Selfish
Gene. Besides Ages of Discord also by Peter Turchin, another book this makes me want to pick up
is Guns, Germs and Steel.

### Arabian Sands (October)

### The Persian Expedition (October)

This book was probably the easiest ancient text I have read so far. There are far
fewer characters in the story compared to the History of the Peloponnesian War, and
the basic goal of the tale is simple. Get the 10,000 Greek mercenaries from Persia
to Greece without getting wiped out. The author, Xenophon, claims an important role 
in this feat, as he was one of the generals that led the army back home. Though, as
an early side-note, his version of the journey and his part in it are somewhat 
historically disputed by a different account by a different author. Though, as
ancient history is, it is difficult to know the real truth. Certainly, Xenophon
when writing this in his older age might have enhanced some details from his
memory, even if he additionally had kept his own journal. While the events of
the Persian Expedition have larger implications on later Greek history (Rise of 
war as a profession, new military tactics involving more light infantry, and
reserves), it can also be read as its own self-contained story.
 
### History of the Peloponnesian War

At long last I finished this book. Reading the whole, lengthy tale is worth it
just to get the context for the Athenian expeditions to Syracuse, which occurs
in the later half of the book. Thucydides retelling of the years of the
expedition, with specifically some key moments in mind, I think was one of the
more well written passages that I've read. 

### Sapiens: A Brief History of Mankind (August 29th - September 5th)

Not a short book, but for one that covers the entire history of humanity it compresses
a great deal of ideas into a few humble hundreds of pages. 

### Born to Run (August 11th - August 19th)

Solid quick read that anybody involved in distance running should probably would
find interesting. 

### The Abolition of Man (July 8th - July 16th)

Another book by C.S. Lewis that I listened to. I was pretty bored for the majority of the book, and
I do not think that my brain was able to store some of the contents. Mostly the early chapters talked
about education, and I could not relate too well to 1950s British education. 
The only chapter that had my interest was the final one. It was of course called, "The Abolition of Man," 
and, what I felt was sudden, started going on about the conquest of nature, and the final conquest of
mankind. By conquest, what I think was meant is that more people can be controlled by fewer individuals. 
Historically it does seem like the trend, with better communications, logistics making it easy to exert 
influence across more space. I don't consider technological progress as only a means to control, but 
it is a use case that should be kept in mind.  

### The Great Divorce (July 2nd - July 7th)

This book, also by C.S. Lewis, I thought was pretty weird because it was an attempt to come up 
with a best guess as to what heaven could be like. There's not much material to go off, so I
forgive him for the initial confusion I felt during the book, and eventually how it all turns
out to be some weird dream that the main character had. The main character is primarily an observer
of other visitors that have come up to heaven, where some either accept or reject the possibility of
continuing their existence there. 

### Mere Christianity (June 21st - June 25th)

Listened to these next three books by C.S. Lewis in their audio format. As a result, they
did not take too long to consume. Or at least, the rate at which an audio book reads is much
slower than what a person can normally read in their head, but it is easier to find time to listen
to a book than to sit down and read one. It's a Christian apologetic, and I figure its worth the 
read or listen. 

### Memoir of a Cashier: Korean Americans, Racism, and Riots (June 15th - June 21st)

A short book about a Korean American's experience with the Los Angeles riots back
in the 90s. Carol Park was a gas station cashier in Compton and witnessed a great
deal first hand. 

### The Korean War: A History (June 8th - June 18th)

Another book by Bruce Cumings that explores what is the most significant time period in
modern Korean history. Though, the book is less about the war and more about the impacts
on the people, war crimes, and its future implications on American policy around the world. 
In the end I think Cumings argues that it was the Korean War that sparked the beginning
of American bases around the globe, rather than just the power vacuum that existed after
the second world war.  

### The Automatic Millionaire (June 15th)

A short book on personal finance and how an individual should save money to build
up wealth. The main idea is automating your finances such that you protect yourself
from yourself and the savings happen "automatically."

### Korea's Place in the Sun (February 3rd - June 6th)

I actually do not know that much about Korean history, so I picked up this book
to learn some. With other books in the way, and classes taking over my time,
this book has become somewhat of a side read that I slowly progress through.
The author (Bruce Cumings) is an American, but has gathered a lot of
information about Korea and has personal experience as well with the country.
Still, it has somewhat of an outsider perspective on the country. This is not a
total disadvantage as there are some patterns or events that Cumings is able to
recognize for their importance, that perhaps a Korean author would have skipped
over or liked to forget. I enjoyed so far the early chapters on all of Korean
history leading up to the 1800s, though well over half of the book is dedicated
to the past 100 years of Korean (both North and South) history. 

### Practical File System Design with the Be File System (March 6th - March 21st)

This book I read for my 15-410 (Operating Systems) book report. The text
describes the implementation of a filesystem for an operating system that (I
don't think) exists anymore. Because of its age, and from its relatively rapid
development under a small team, the filesystem structure I believe is not too
hard to understand. Reading this should help with understanding more modern
filesystem designs that have likely grown greatly in complexity.   

### The Path to War: How the First World War Created Modern America 

Another book for the World War I class. Rather than being an account of the war
and its battles, this class is more about the cultural shifts that happened to
the involved countries. For example, the US going from a neutral power to
sending millions overseas to fight on the Western Front. Or additionally, how
the countries had to change their industries to be able to field such massive
armies. 

### Rites of Spring: The Great War and the Birth of the Modern Age (January 18th - April 30th)

One of the books I have read reading in my WWI history class. This book mainly talks about
the cultural changes before/during/after World War I from the European perspective. 

### Please Look After Mom (March 11th)

Continuing the Libby streak of books, though spring break is coming to an end
so I have to resume the usual work. This kernel project is not going to write
itself. I read this book on the recommendation from my mom, as it is a story of
a Korean family that loses their elderly mom in the subway. After losing her,
they all reflect on who their mom really was and about all the sacrifices that
she had made for all of them to live the way they do. This book is almost
entirely written in the second person, to give a feeling that it is "you." Also
though, who you are changes as the story goes between two different daughters,
a son, and the father. The only first person chapter is the mother, but often I
was always wondering "who am I at this point" because the story kind of just
expects you to know.  Though, after a bit you can pick up the details. Kind of
embarassing, but I thought that this book was a true story, mainly because my
mind was still thinking about the two memoirs that I had just read. This book
is actually a novel and no moms were lost in the making of this book.

### When Breath Becomes Air (March 9th - March 10th)

Another book I found on Libby that I remember seeing it being recommended in
one place or another.  Overall less than half as long as Educated. This book is
another memoir, but is about a neurosurgeon who has been diagnosed with
terminal lung cancer. In this book the author reflects from his unique
perspective as a neurosurgeion about life and what makes it worth living.
Witnessing a lot of crippling head trauma and performing surgeries that might
leave people not the same, the author had not only seen regular death, but also
sometimes the death of the individual's personality, even though their body
survives. The author spent around the final couple years of his life writing
this memoir, while also performing still as a neurosurgeon.

### Educated (March 8th - March 9th)

I've acquried an iPad and there's an app called Libby that lets you check out
ebooks from the local library system. Because the guy Bill Gates recommended
this book, it was on my list but I had not read it as buying books all the time
is quite an expense. So now that I could read it for "free," I finished it in
less than two days. It's spring break, and as I still have post surgery wounds
from my ankle, I could not travel. So here I am just reading books and playing
video games. Previously I have mostly been reading IR or history books, so
reading a memoir felt quite different. First, I thought everything was much
easier to understand. Reading a page of Educated felt twice as fast as when I
read a page from Blueprint. Second, as it was a memoir, the experience I got
from reading was a lot more personal, as it was focused on a single life
experience, rather than the collective human history described in Carl Sagan's
Cosmos. This page is more a collection of things that I have read than a place
for book reviews, but this book to me was definitely worth the time spent
  reading it.

### Cosmos (January 7th - January 24th)

I made a lot of progress on this book the first two days I read it.  Then I got
poisioned by a Costco hot dog and lost my reading rhythm.  School semester
started so I started reading in the occasional freetime I had, but this book
really got finished while I was waiting in the surgery pre-op room. As I was
only getting my screws removed from my ankle, more urgent surgeries got put
ahead of me so I had to wait a couple hours. Cosmos, written by Carl Sagan, is
essentially the book version of the famous TV show "Cosmos" also by Carl Sagan.
At the time the book was written, the Cold War was in it's last tense decade,
and the depths of the universe were being discovered through our telescopes and
unmanned spacecraft. Carl Sagan emphasizes that science should be popularized
and shared among the public, which is the reason for his efforts of sharing the
mysteries of the cosmos through the rising medium of television. What Sagan
covers is a vast array of topics, from the origins of the universe, to the
first practice of science in Ionian Greece, to the distant future potential of
humanity. Myself being interested in ancient history since I was a kid, I
really enjoyed any discussion about the growth of science and exploration in
the ancient world. The resourcefulness of our ancestors from 2500 years ago I
think is surprising to most people and we often attribute a lot of discovery to
the renaissance era. For example, there were some who had already contemplated
that one might reach India by sailing west from Spain. Around this time as
well, there had already been explorers who had circumnavigated the entire
continent of Africa. The Mediteranean world and beyond was a bit more connected
than is commonly known, though this gap in public knowledge is likely caused by
the end of the ancient world begun by the fall of the Roman Empire. 

### All the Shah's Men (January 5th - January 6th)

Picked this book up after the United States military killed Iranian general
Qassem Soleimani in a drone strike. Writing about this subject online is a hot
take that I won't take a risk for. Old opinions tend to resurface at
inconvenient times. 

### Blueprint: The Evolutionary Origins of a Good Society (October 16th - January 3rd)

I actually started this book deep in 2019 but did not finish it until winter
break in 2020. For a better review, you can probably read the one [Bill
Gates](https://www.gatesnotes.com/Books/Blueprint) wrote. This book takes an
evolutionary approach to how humans have evolved to be cooperative and social. 
