--- 
layout: post 
title: "Reading List 2020" 
date: 2020-01-08 
excerpt: "A collection of the books that I have read in the year 2020"

comments: false 
---

This year for 2020 I hope to continue reading and documenting which books that
I complete here on this website. Though I also found it convenient to use
[goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com/review/list/104759146) to keep track of
books as well. Giving complete reviews/reflections on these books is not really
my goal, but I might provide some aspect that I found interesting or possibly a
description of what was going on in my life at the time I read the book.  

### History of the Peloponnesian War

I started reading this lengthy book over spring break and got a quarter of the way through,
but I have not touched it since. Once summer begins, I hope to resume reading. 

### Korea's Place in the Sun

I actually do not know that much about Korean history, so I picked up this book
to learn some. With other books in the way, and classes taking over my time,
this book has become somewhat of a side read that I slowly progress through.
The author (Bruce Cumings) is an American, but has gathered a lot of
information about Korea and has personal experience as well with the country.
Still, it has somewhat of an outsider perspective on the country. This is not a
total disadvantage as there are some patterns or events that Cumings is able to
recognize for their importance, that perhaps a Korean author would have skipped
over or liked to forget. I enjoyed so far the early chapters on all of Korean
history leading up to the 1800s, though well over half of the book is dedicated
to the past 100 years of Korean (both North and South) history. 

### Practical File System Design with the Be File System (March 6th - March 21st)

This book I read for my 15-410 (Operating Systems) book report. The text
describes the implementation of a filesystem for an operating system that (I
don't think) exists anymore. Because of its age, and from its relatively rapid
development under a small team, the filesystem structure I believe is not too
hard to understand. Reading this should help with understanding more modern
filesystem designs that have likely grown greatly in complexity.   

### The Path to War: How the First World War Created Modern America 

Another book for the World War I class. Rather than being an account of the war
and its battles, this class is more about the cultural shifts that happened to
the involved countries. For example, the US going from a neutral power to
sending millions overseas to fight on the Western Front. Or additionally, how
the countries had to change their industries to be able to field such massive
armies. 

### Rites of Spring: The Great War and the Birth of the Modern Age (January 18th - April 30th)

One of the books I have read reading in my WWI history class. This book mainly talks about
the cultural changes before/during/after World War I from the European perspective. 

### Please Look After Mom (March 11th)

Continuing the Libby streak of books, though spring break is coming to an end
so I have to resume the usual work. This kernel project is not going to write
itself. I read this book on the recommendation from my mom, as it is a story of
a Korean family that loses their elderly mom in the subway. After losing her,
they all reflect on who their mom really was and about all the sacrifices that
she had made for all of them to live the way they do. This book is almost
entirely written in the second person, to give a feeling that it is "you." Also
though, who you are changes as the story goes between two different daughters,
a son, and the father. The only first person chapter is the mother, but often I
was always wondering "who am I at this point" because the story kind of just
expects you to know.  Though, after a bit you can pick up the details. Kind of
embarassing, but I thought that this book was a true story, mainly because my
mind was still thinking about the two memoirs that I had just read. This book
is actually a novel and no moms were lost in the making of this book.

### When Breath Becomes Air (March 9th - March 10th)

Another book I found on Libby that I remember seeing it being recommended in
one place or another.  Overall less than half as long as Educated. This book is
another memoir, but is about a neurosurgeon who has been diagnosed with
terminal lung cancer. In this book the author reflects from his unique
perspective as a neurosurgeion about life and what makes it worth living.
Witnessing a lot of crippling head trauma and performing surgeries that might
leave people not the same, the author had not only seen regular death, but also
sometimes the death of the individual's personality, even though their body
survives. The author spent around the final couple years of his life writing
this memoir, while also performing still as a neurosurgeon.

### Educated (March 8th - March 9th)

I've acquried an iPad and there's an app called Libby that lets you check out
ebooks from the local library system. Because the guy Bill Gates recommended
this book, it was on my list but I had not read it as buying books all the time
is quite an expense. So now that I could read it for "free," I finished it in
less than two days. It's spring break, and as I still have post surgery wounds
from my ankle, I could not travel. So here I am just reading books and playing
video games. Previously I have mostly been reading IR or history books, so
reading a memoir felt quite different. First, I thought everything was much
easier to understand. Reading a page of Educated felt twice as fast as when I
read a page from Blueprint. Second, as it was a memoir, the experience I got
from reading was a lot more personal, as it was focused on a single life
experience, rather than the collective human history described in Carl Sagan's
Cosmos. This page is more a collection of things that I have read than a place
for book reviews, but this book to me was definitely worth the time spent
  reading it.

### Cosmos (January 7th - January 24th)

I made a lot of progress on this book the first two days I read it.  Then I got
poisioned by a Costco hot dog and lost my reading rhythm.  School semester
started so I started reading in the occasional freetime I had, but this book
really got finished while I was waiting in the surgery pre-op room. As I was
only getting my screws removed from my ankle, more urgent surgeries got put
ahead of me so I had to wait a couple hours. Cosmos, written by Carl Sagan, is
essentially the book version of the famous TV show "Cosmos" also by Carl Sagan.
At the time the book was written, the Cold War was in it's last tense decade,
and the depths of the universe were being discovered through our telescopes and
unmanned spacecraft. Carl Sagan emphasizes that science should be popularized
and shared among the public, which is the reason for his efforts of sharing the
mysteries of the cosmos through the rising medium of television. What Sagan
covers is a vast array of topics, from the origins of the universe, to the
first practice of science in Ionian Greece, to the distant future potential of
humanity. Myself being interested in ancient history since I was a kid, I
really enjoyed any discussion about the growth of science and exploration in
the ancient world. The resourcefulness of our ancestors from 2500 years ago I
think is surprising to most people and we often attribute a lot of discovery to
the renaissance era. For example, there were some who had already contemplated
that one might reach India by sailing west from Spain. Around this time as
well, there had already been explorers who had circumnavigated the entire
continent of Africa. The Mediteranean world and beyond was a bit more connected
than is commonly known, though this gap in public knowledge is likely caused by
the end of the ancient world begun by the fall of the Roman Empire. 

### All the Shah's Men (January 5th - January 6th)

Picked this book up after the United States military killed Iranian general
Qassem Soleimani in a drone strike. Writing about this subject online is a hot
take that I won't take a risk for. Old opinions tend to resurface at
inconvenient times. 

### Blueprint: The Evolutionary Origins of a Good Society (October 16th -
January 3rd)

I actually started this book deep in 2019 but did not finish it until winter
break in 2020. For a better review, you can probably read the one [Bill
Gates](https://www.gatesnotes.com/Books/Blueprint) wrote. This book takes an
evolutionary approach to how humans have evolved to be cooperative and social. 
