---
layout: post
title: "15-300 Project Proposal"
date: 2018-12-22
excerpt: "Project proposal for research to be done in 15-400 come
Spring 2018"
research: true

comments: false
---

# Description

I will be working with Professor Keenan Crane and his graduate 
student Rohan Sawhney in the CMU Graphics Lab on improving 
Boundary First Flattening, an open source software that maps 
3D surfaces to a 2D domain. Specifically, I will be researching 
techniques that will improve the space efficiency of the generated 
2D atlas, while avoiding the creation of mapped overlaps.

The proposed research is meant to be an feature of the open source 
software Boundary First Flattening, which is a surface parameterization 
software which allows you to manipulate the shape of the target 
2D surface in real time. The challenges here are that when 3D meshes 
have sharp protusions, such as a person's nose on a 3D model of a 
face. These sharp points create distortions on the 2D parameterization, 
and, although the distortions are minimized, they can still become 
quite large. This distortion can be reduced by placing a few cone 
singularities on the 3D mesh. These cones represent the start to a 
cut towards the boundary of the mesh and allow for more flexibility 
when creating the 2D surface. By adding more cones, we can create a 
less distorted parameterization in 2D.

This however, introduces some new problems. First, placing cones 
doesn't eliminate the possiblity of a parameterization creating 
overlaps in the 2D surface. This means that some distinct parts of 
a 3D mesh can map to the same location in the 2D surface. This is 
an issue because these 2D surfaces are often used to store textures, 
so overlaps cause the textures to become overwritten in the 
overlapped areas. Additionally, the introduction of these cones 
that create cuts along the mesh can lead to paramterizations that 
have long boundary lengths. This means that, as we try to store the 
atlas in a 2D rectangular array, these long boundary lengths create 
shapes that leave a great deal of empty space. This empty space 
carries no special signal, but still has to be loaded into memory 
when this finished atlas is called on. In situations that require 
speed and efficiency, such as when we want to load textures for 
video games on the fly, this wasted space is far from ideal and 
should be eliminated.

To handle this issue, we hope to take advantage of a special property 
given by the design Boundary First Flattening. When Boundary First 
Flattening makes cuts in the mesh, it does them seamlessly, in this 
case meaning that the triangle side lengths on one side of the cut 
are the same length on the other side of the cut. This is not 
necessarily true in other flattening algorithms, as they might make 
modifications that distort the triangle side lengths after the cut 
has been made. But Boundary First Flattening guarantees this does 
not happen, making it possible for us to move triangles from one 
part of the boundary to another part, with the goal of reducing 
the size of the "box" that encloses the atlas. If some efficient, 
intelligent solution can be found through this research, Boundary 
First Flattening will not only be able to provide parameterizations 
of 3D surfaces with minimal distortion, but also be able to provide 
them with minimized space usage.

# Goals
## 75% Goal
At a minimum I should be able to finish an implementation of the 
cutting and repacking strategy described in the Box Cutter research 
paper. From there I would like to also test it out over many 
different meshes so that I can confirm its ability. The result 
should be more space efficient and not have overlaps. Furthermore, 
I should also at least have the naive implementation that takes 
advantage of the Boundary First Flattening properties.

## 100% Goal
In addition to my 75% goals, my 100% goal includes finding some more 
intelligent solution to the atlas packing problem. With this solution 
I hope to test it on multiple meshes to confirm its efficiency and 
to gather metrics to present as my results.

## 125% Goal
In addition to my 100% goals, my 125% goal goes beyond finding just 
the intelligent solution and perhaps explores problems along the way 
that I had identified with the overall process but left behind because 
they were not in the focus of this project. Another possibility to 
extend this project is to just continue research on another technique 
that is superior to what I've created for the 100% goal.

## Milestones
### 1st Technical Milestone for 15-300
By the end of the fall semester I hope to be familiarized with the 
Boundary First Flattening software and the methods that power it. 
Additionally I will be doing further background research into the 
area and gathering research papers to read over the winter break 
before the start of the next semester. Also, to note that throughout 
this entire process, I should be thinking on how I will achieve my 
final solution to this problem. As it won't be possible to just 
dream something up in the final weeks, I should be always considering 
the final goal througout the semester.

## Bi-weekly Milestones for 15-400
### February 1st, 2019
One of the problems that we described is that some parameterizations 
introduce overlaps where different points on the 3D surface get mapped 
to the same location on the 2D atlas. By Febryary 1st, I hope to 
have some program that takes in an atlas and the 3D source and 
identifies any overlaps that were created. Furthermore, the program 
should be able to fix these overlaps.

### February 15th, 2019
Our goal here is to improve the storage efficiency of the 2D atlas, 
so then by February 15th I should have implemented a system to 
evaluate the efficiency of the current atlas. This should be a 
judgement of how much of the space within the 2D space given to 
the atlas that is actually occupied.

### March 1st, 2019
By March 1st I should be reaching a halfway point on implementing 
the Box Cutter algorithm described in [3]. This should be giving me 
an idea of how to implement some algorithm that modifies the 
paramterization/mesh to create a better packed atlas.

### March 22nd, 2019
At this time I will be finished with the Box Cutter algorithm. During 
this whole period I hope to have also done a great deal of thinking 
on if there is a better way to pack this atlas. There are some nice 
assumptions that the Boundary First Flattening gives, like being 
seamless, which were not possible in Box Cutter.

### April 5th, 2019
Implement a naive, greedy strategy that takes advantage of the 
construction of the atlas by Boundary First Flattening. As we know 
that the triangles on the boundaries have different locations along 
the rest of the boundary where they can be removed and placed, we can 
greedily move triangles and evaluate if the packing efficiency has 
improved at all. This of course is very slow but it's the first step 
to some possible inspiration on something much more intelligent. 
Also, if possible, implement a probablistic strategy that takes 
some groups of boundary triangles randomly with some probability and 
relocate them. Evaluate if this strategy is better than the naive 
version.

### April 19th, 2019
This milestone is a bit more open ended than the ones that come 
before. All this time before should have been spent pondering on if 
there is some better way to pack these triangles in the atlas. So 
then, the goal for April 19th is to implement this more intelligent 
strategy. As to what this strategy is, this is open to research and 
is the purpose of this project.

### May 3rd, 2019
One thought is that it could be possible to take an atlas, and simplify 
it to make a coarser representation with less triangles. Potentially 
then, working with this problem could be faster, but would require us 
to then to go back to a fine grained set of triangles after the 
accelerated algorithm has been run. It's open as to whether this 
method is effective or even possible, so by May 3rd I hope to 
have explored that possibility.

The initial literature search can be organized into three parts. 
Firstly there is are papers thatdescribe the general problem to be 
solved and the background of the project’s motivation.These are two 
papers on the Box Cutting algorithm [3] and the Boundary First 
Flatteningalgorithm [6]. Then, there are papers that explore 
intrinsic triangulations, in order to hope-fully provide motivation 
on the current state of the work and more insight into any 
potentialsolutions. These papers are [2] and [1]. Lastly, 
unfolding of polyhedra has some relevanceto the subject that 
I am exploring, and I will be referencing the two sources [5] and [4].

## Resources Needed
Boundary First Flattening is in C++, so it should not be difficult 
to get it running on myown computer. There are some dependencies that 
I will need to install as well, but they initially look easy to 
obtain as well.

# References
\[1\] Keenan Crane. Conformal geometry of simplicial surfaces. Rough Draft, 2018.

\[2\] Matthew Fisher, Boris Springborn, Alexander I. Bobenko, and Peter Schroder. An algorithm for the construction of intrinsic delaunay triangulations with applications to digitalgeometry processing. InACM SIGGRAPH 2006 Courses, SIGGRAPH '06, pages 69-74,New York, NY, USA, 2006. ACM.

\[3\] Max Limper, Nicholas Vining, and Alla Sheffer. Box cutter: Atlas refinement for efficientpacking via void elimination.ACM Trans. Graph., 37(4):153:1-153:13, July 2018.

\[4\] Joe O'Rourke and Komei Fukuda. Unfolding convex polytopes. 

 - Available at [http://jeffe.cs.illinois.edu/open/unfold.html](http://jeffe.cs.illinois.edu/open/unfold.html) (11/01/2018).

\[5\] Joseph O'Rourke. Unfolding polyhedra. 2008.

\[6\] Rohan Sawhney and Keenan Crane. Boundary first flattening. ACM Trans.Graph.,37(1):5:1-5:14, December 2017.
