---
layout: post
title: "Carnegie Natural Podcast"
data: 2019-10-30
excerpt: On a blog that nobody reads, I'm announcing a podcast that nobody will listen to.

comments: false
---

My friends and I, out of having nothing better to do, have started a podcast called
Carnegie Natural. Actually, this previous statement might not be true. We actually
have a lot of better, more important things to do, like getting full-time jobs or
applying to graduate school, but we've started a podcast instead. An idea resembling a
podcast has been on the back of our minds for a while, so we decided to force ourselves
into action by purchasing a good microphone and hitting the record button.

Carnegie Natural has no real theme, other than our goal to just be real with it and
tell hopefully good stories and share maybe decent opinions. I'm mostly inspired
by podcasts that I have listened to in middle and high school such as the Rooster
Teeth Podcast or The Internet Box. Both run by related people, they are just people
sitting in a room talking about whatever may interest them at that moment. This sort
of style might be behind the times though, as that was back in 2013 and now there are
a million podcasts of some dudes huddled around a mic. Our experiences are not so unique
as to be a podcast that is a must listen.

Despite all that, we're recording this podcast anyway. Hopefully, it'll come out on 
Monday evenings every week. In an amazingly simple process, we're on [Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/show/7v3EDMLqOexoXS8YMu2wnv). Though, technically this podcast is distributed by Anchor (owned by Spotify), and they provide embeded links to the podcast. You can see one below.

<center>
<iframe src="https://anchor.fm/carnegienatural/embed" height="102px" width="400px" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>  
</center>

Additionally, there's a website for the podcast at [https://anchor.fm/carnegienatural](https://anchor.fm/carnegienatural). Whoever may be reading this, maybe give it a listen. If anything, I may enjoy listening to this podcast 5 years from now. 
