--- 
layout: post 
title: "Reading List 2021" 
date: 2021-02-13 excerpt: "A collection of the books that I have read in the year 2021"

comments: false 
---

My goal for 2021 is to read 50 books. At the time of writing this initial
description, I am two books behind my goal. 2021 marks beginning of the third
year in which I have started reading outside of education again. As usual, I
report all the books that I read using
[goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com/review/list/104759146).  A differentiator
from this year and last is that I expect to be reading more consistently,
rather than the sporadic reading sprees I had during college between tough
periods in the semester, or during breaks. As I presently work at Amazon
Robotics, I have plenty of free evenings relative to undergrad to spend
reading. Though we'll see how that changes once the weather becomes more
suitable for me to spend time outside, and covid either fades away or we treat
it more as an endemic. Also as usual, I wouldn't expect deep insights from
anything I write, and I have yet to proofread these.

# Letters from a Stoic (May 21st - June 22nd)

I actually had not realized I was holding onto this book for so long without finishing 
it. Now that Boston is lightening its restrictions as covid cases decline, less of
my evenings are spent reading. That in combination with the better weather has
distracted me from my reading goal. Currently I stand at 23/50 books read at around
the halfway point of the year. Soon I'll have to setup a schedule to get back on 
track. The book itself is slightly dense, with language that is not so smooth
to follow. Stoic philosophy bled a lot into later Christian philosophy, so I did
not feel too out of place from Senaca's arguments. 

# Effective Java (March 8th - June 12th)

Started this book a long time ago and have finally made my way through it. I write
a lot of Java so this book has been a huge source of good practice.

# Once a Runner (May 30th - June 1st)

This book is a fictional tale about a college miler Quenton Cassidy and his
journey to run under a mile in under four minutes. While Cassidy's training is
the overarching plot, the book itself felt more like multiple slices into
Cassidy's life, some of which I found relatable from my own racing experiences.
Though I did not run, as in one of the more memorable chapters, sixty 400s for
a workout, a lot of the language used to surround running, competing,
interacting with teammates, was I think common to anybody that has run track.
Definitely reading the ending chapters of the book where the climactic mile
race takes place put me there on the track with Cassidy. I was so engrossed in
reading that chapter that, when my housemate walked in my room to ask a
question, I felt as if I was watching a movie, and he had walked in front of
the TV during the most important scene. I should have read this sooner, and
it's up there right next to Born to Run in the collection of great running
books.

# Red Plenty (May 24th - May 29th)

Red Plenty is about the USSR from the 1950s to 1970s. To make it more
interesting, the author chose to invent characters based on real personalities,
rather than tell a nonfiction of what could be considered the USSR's most
hopeful years. There are many characters in Red Plenty, and each chapter chose
to focus on one of them. Some characters would occur once, and others would
reappear in following chapters focused on them, or would make guest appearances
in the chapters of other characters. The most central plot that I interpreted
well was the rise and fall of the computerized central planning algorithm. That
being, it was imagined at the time that the USSR could manage an entire economy
by setting both production and consumption rates throughout the entire nation.
What gave this massive task even the hopeful possibility of being possible was
the introduction of the computer, and a process to solve such an optimization
problem called linear/integer programming. Even with the new technology it's
not difficult to see why this attempt failed, but the book itself was
informative in that most of the described events did happen (but to real
people).   

# No Time Like the Future (May 17th - May 20th)

# Debugging Teams (June 21st, 2020 - May 15th)

# The Splendid and the Vile (May 4th - May 11th)

If you somehow end up wanting an extremely detailed description of Winston 
Churchill's life during the Battle of Britain, then you would be in the right
place. Even if that is not what you want, this book also gives a great look
into life in London during the constant air raids. I found it surprising how
city life carried on during daily raids, and the author Erik Larkson does well
collecting many different diary entries to create a fluid story.

# The Bitcoin Standard (April 22nd - May 3rd) 

If you're looking for a book that'll explain the motivation behind
cryptocurrency, rather than searching through multiple online articles, then
I'd recommend this book. While Bitcoin is in the name and the author spends the
later half of the book explaining Bitcoin, really the first half of the book
that examines the history of currency is what I found the most useful.  If you
like Keynesian economics you'd probably disagree with most of the contents, as
the author never says one positive word about government intervention in the
economy.  

# Range: Why Generalists Triumph in a Specialized World (April 21st - April 29th)

I read this book on my phone when I saw it was on Bill Gate's reading list. If you
have yet to read a book that has a title similar sounding to the one here, I would
recommend, but if you've read a similar themed title, there's not too much that is
new to learn here. The one interesting chapter was about the rise in "intelligence"
experienced in the 20th century. While one could say that rising test scores cannot
say much about human intelligence, there did come about undeniable growth in common
understanding of higher level abstractions. 

# Astrophysics for People in a Hurry (April 19th - April 19th)

My housemates said audiobooks do not count as reading, so I have limited
my intake. Written by Neil deGrasse Tyson, this book definitely was a
speedrun of my knowledge of astrophysics, especially as I listened to it
on the plane rides to and from Pittsburgh/Boston at 2x speed. The book
does exactly as it says, and gives you the overview of several topics
and the barebones depiction of the science behind them.

# The Black Swan (April 2nd - April 11th)

# Fooled by Randomness (March 27th - April 1st)

# The Iliad and The Odyssey (March 15th - March 26th)

# The Communist Manifesto (March 20th - March 20th)

# The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat (March 11th - March 14th)

# The Consolation of Philosophy (March 3rd - March 10th)

This book is short, and written by a Roman politician Boethius during the
collapse of Rome in the 6th century. Boethius lived mostly a life of success
but suddenly found his fortunes reversed by those currently in power. Sent
to prison and soon to die, he writes The Consolation of Philosophy during
his prison days in order to prepare himself to accept his own death. I'm not
familiar at all with medieval philosophy, but supposedly this book is foundational
to later literature. Mostly in my limited understanding I thought it was a 
continuation of stoic philosophy, in which, while Boethius enjoyed great
success throughout his life, everything, including his life, was never truly
his to keep, and on recognizing that Boethius could die knowing he had lost
nothing.

# The Coddling of the American Mind (February 27th - March 5th)

This book I believe spawned from a controversial essay in the Atlantic of
the same title. It's a notable overview of changing American culture
over the past decade or so. Specifically, it does describe college students
entering their freshman year after 2015 (I entered 2016) of their growing
sensitivity. The topic itself was hot when the essay/book was published,
and is still hot today. Having lived through these times in college,  I don't 
think it entirely describes the common case, which the book does admit, but
it's definitely a topic worth discussing with others, rather than ignoring.

# Snow Crash (February 26th - March 1st)

It's fiction. If you want to read a book written in the 90s that describes
a futuristic world with virtual reality, consumerism taken to a new level,
and a wild Sumerian conspiracy, then I would recommend.

# A History of My Times (February 17th - February 25th)

A follow up to The Peloponnesian War historically, and what formerly was
an authorative text on the time period's events. However, as other,
seemingly more accurate, texts were discovered, this history has fallen
out of favor. As the introduction to the book written by the translator 
described to me, this book is more of a story of the time period from
the perspective of Xenophon, and is more like a memoir than a history.
Xenophon has bias towards the Spartans, and would clearly rely on his
own memory for recounting events, rather than investigating multiple
sources as Thucydides did for The Peloponnesian War. However, Xenophon,
because of his Spartan bias, does present the best look into Spartan
life, though he is an outsider.

# Think and Grow Rich (August 20th, 2020 - February 17th)

I started this book last year in the fall but put it down for a couple of months. It's
probably one of the OG self motiviation books, and by that I mean the kind of book that
yells at you to go out there and seize success, as opposed to perhaps old philosophy books
that would tell you in more abstract ways how to live. 

# Guns, Germs, and Steel (February 4th - February 15th)

Having read a couple books within the past year on human societies over
time, Guns, Germs and Steel is one of the more popular ones out there. 
Either as a result of it being so consumable, it can be overly simplified,
or perhaps because it's simplified, it's consumable. That is one criticism I
saw online, but the book itself is not short, and the author I believe gives
a best effort to answer a tough question, why some societies obtained
guns, germs and steel before others did. The answer itself, you'll have to 
read to find out, but it's not difficult to recognize that we've only evolved
on a single timeline, and so any found model cannot possibly represent the
full set of possible outcomes given inputs.

# Can't Hurt Me (February 1st - February 3rd)

This book is actually not a common genre that I read, and I categorize it
under motivational memoirs. However, written by a former Navy Seal, Can't Hurt
Me was an excellent story from start to finish about freeing yourself from
mental limitations. A book I had read last year, Born to Run, had already
made me aware of the far reaches of human endurance that the majority of
us do not utilize in our daily lives. That book however confined that philosophy
mainly to running itself, as it was a book mostly about running. Can't Hurt Me
has a lot to do with running, as the author Groggins ends up as an ultra runner,
but he was able to apply the same philosphy of never quitting to nearly all
aspects of life. 

# A Promised Land (January 3rd - January 31st)

This book is one of the reasons I fell behind my goal of reading 50 books this
year. Though I hope to still be able to meet my goal (somewhat through cheating
by reading a few short books), Obama's memoir was long enough to throw a slight
wrench into my schedule. It was not until I returned to Boston that I set up
a schedule to actually complete this book. It is actually not a complicated read,
so spending enough time reading usually led to satisfying progress. Despite its
length, it actually only goes from Obama's birth, to around a year before the
2012 election. Obama's presidency from 2008 to 2016 were my formative years
from 5th grade to freshman year of college, so reliving those times through
his perspective felt especially interesting as it provided mored detail into
a world that I was only beginning to understand at that time. 
